src/overview/notetaking.rst, before:

What's the deal with the notes?
###############################

:date: 2014-03-09
:category: overview
:tags: overview, meta, notes, why

TODO: Establish a plan for notetaking in the course


1. To have a record of what happened on every day in class
2. To process into long-term memory the *big ideas*
3. To practice note-taking as a valuable skill in itself
4. To be able to notice interesting things, one must record them so they can be reflected upon 

The notetaking system is confusing, and takes some getting used to. The reason
I insist on everyone taking a turn is that there is no way to get better at if
you don't practice it, but the mental load of taking notes and paying attention
or thinking about figuring things out at the same time is too much -- so it is
better if one student is designated as the note-taker each day, freeing the
others to think without having to worry about whether or not the results are
being recorded.

Thus each student takes one turn taking notes each week, and in turn is
provided with notes by their teammates the other days.  For this to work, you
have to be able to trust that your team will do their jobs.  We will achieve
that trust by sharing the notes each day, so we can see what has been recorded,
and by giving feedback when the notes can be improved.

Each student must write their own summary of the most important points of the
day *every day* as homework.  This is the only way you will be able to process
what we have done to figure out what is important and to make sure it gets put
in your long-term memory so you can improve.  I got the idea from a soccer
coach_, who always asked his team at halftime, "What are we doing right?  What
are we doing wrong?  What are they doing right?  What do we need to change
right now?"  That thought process, repeated every game, turned his players into
strategists, enabling them to raise the level of their own game.  This is why I
ask you to answer the key questions in the summary:

1. What did I do today?
2. Why did I do it?
3. What does it help me do or understand that I couldn't before?
4. What do I need to do tomorrow to keep improving?

If you repeat that process, honestly, every day, you will turn yourself into a learning strategist (and scientist)

Finally, when I grade the notes, I am looking for completion of the daily record and for thoughtful reflection in the summary.

.. _coach: http://onemorewiggns.net/

Commit message:

filled in week 1  details for winter term 2015-2016

src/overview/notetaking.rst, after:

What's the deal with the notes?
###############################

:date: 2015-09-01
:category: overview
:tags: overview, meta, notes, why


1. To have a record of what happened on every day in class
2. To process into long-term memory the *big ideas*
3. To practice note-taking as a valuable skill in itself
4. To be able to notice interesting things, one must record them so they can be reflected upon 


Taking notes is hard.  In fact, it is so difficult that I almost don't recommend doing it.  The issue is that if your try to record everything in your notes, there isn't much space left for reflecting on what it means.  And research has shown that there is a bigger benefit to notes if you don't try to record everything, because you then have to think about what are the most important points.

I suspect that it is the meta-process of figuring out what is most important that is actually beneficial.

So in this class you will be given a composition book to record your *work* each day.  When a day starts, you should write the date down on a new page, and begin solving problems and figuring stuff out throughout the class.  If there's a handout, you should tape it into your notebook.  If we go over a problem, you should write a procedure down in your notes.  If you work on an experiment, you should record your methods and measurements in the notebook.

You should make a table of contents at the front, listing topics covered.  You should decide what title to give each day.  You will be allowed to keep this notebook with you during most assessments, so you should organize it in a way that will help you find information quickly.

Each student must write their own summary of the most important points of the
day *every day* as homework.  This will help you figure out what was important.  You will be given a google document to record these summaries.  Each day you should ask 

1. What did I do today?
2. Why did I do it?
3. What does it help me do or understand that I couldn't before?
4. What do I need to do tomorrow to keep improving?
